(feat): [ENGEN-638] User docs on how to build docker images that contain Kong gateway (#571)
Kong/docker-kong: build_your_own_images.md

# Building Docker images that contain the Kong Gateway

Kong Software uses the [docker-kong github
repository](https://github.com/Kong/docker-kong/) to build Docker images that
contain the Kong Gateway. We will use  
[docker-kong](https://github.com/Kong/docker-kong/) as a reference
implementation for describing how to build your own Docker images that contain the Kong
Gateway.

> To build your Docker image, you will need to provide 

Author: I picked this approach as a way of giving people a tour of our Dockerfiles as preparation for writing their own.

1. A base image of your choice
1. An entrypoint script that runs the Kong Gateway
1. A Dockerfile that installs the Kong Gateway from a location you specify

## Base image

> Use whatever your org makes you use. Kong Software pushes `.apk`, `.deb`, and

Author: I'm out of tact. Suggestions?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the base image that best fits your organizations usage, EG `FROM redhat/ubi8`. Kong Software pushes `.apk`, `.deb`, and
```

> Use whatever your org makes you use. Kong Software pushes .apk, .deb, and .rpm

Author: I'm out of tact. Suggestions?

## Create a Dockerfile to install Kong Gateway

### Decide how to get the Kong Gateway package
Kong Software provides `.apk`, `.deb`, and `.rpm` packages via our [public package
repository](https://download.konghq.com/). Decide whether you want your
Dockerfile to

1. Download the desired package from https://download.konghq.com, or
2. Download the desired package from another package repository you specify, or
3. Install the desired package locally from disk.

If you choose 1 or 2, run the command `touch kong.rpm` in the directory to which
your Dockerfile will download the file; this guarantees that the downloaded file
will have the correct user, groups, and permissions. 

If you choose 2 or 3, then download the package you wish to install and put it
in the desired location.

### Write a Dockerfile to install the Kong Gateway package
Use the template below to create your Dockerfile. Angle brackets (`<>`) indicate
values that you need to provide. Comments that start "# Uncomment" indicate that
you need to uncomment lines relevant to your context.

The template is based upon the Dockerfiles in the the [docker-kong github
repository](https://github.com/Kong/docker-kong/).

```

> FROM <your-base-image> 

Reviewer 2: Replicating dockerfile contents over here is a bit problematic IMO; this will very easily become out of sync with the source of truth (dockerfiles themselves).

ARG KONG_VERSION=2.8.1
ENV KONG_VERSION $KONG_VERSION

# Uncomment the ARG KONG_SHA256 line to build a container using a .deb or .rpm package 

> # For .deb packages, the SHA is in

Author: Is there someplace else where people should get the SHAs?

Reviewer 3: There is not. I think we calculate it when updating this repository dynamically ( https://github.com/Kong/docker-kong/blob/master/update.sh#L56 )

#     fi \
#     && apk add --no-cache --virtual .build-deps tar gzip \
#     && tar -C / -xzf /tmp/kong.apk.tar.gz \
#     && apk add --no-cache libstdc++ libgcc openssl pcre perl tzdata libcap zlib zlib-dev bash \
#     && adduser -S kong \
#     && addgroup -S kong \
#     && mkdir -p "/usr/local/kong" \
#     && chown -R kong:0 /usr/local/kong \
#     && chown kong:0 /usr/local/bin/kong \
#     && chmod -R g=u /usr/local/kong \
#     && rm -rf /tmp/kong.tar.gz \
#     && ln -s /usr/local/openresty/bin/resty /usr/local/bin/resty \
#     && ln -s /usr/local/openresty/luajit/bin/luajit /usr/local/bin/luajit \
#     && ln -s /usr/local/openresty/luajit/bin/luajit /usr/local/bin/lua \
#     && ln -s /usr/local/openresty/nginx/sbin/nginx /usr/local/bin/nginx \
#     && apk del .build-deps \
#     && kong version

COPY docker-entrypoint.sh /docker-entrypoint.sh

USER kong

ENTRYPOINT ["/docker-entrypoint.sh"]

EXPOSE 8000 8443 8001 8444 $EE_PORTS

STOPSIGNAL SIGQUIT

HEALTHCHECK --interval=10s --timeout=10s --retries=10 CMD kong health

CMD ["kong", "docker-start"]
```

### Run the docker command

Run the command `docker build --no-cache -t kong-<your-base-image>

> <path-for-built-image>` to build the docker image.

Reviewer 3: For posterity what are the pros / cons of reiterating the `Dockerfile` instead of for example instructing a user to use the (slim) Dockerfile's?

```
wget -O kong.deb download.konghq.com ....
docker build --build-arg ASSET=local -f Dockerfile.deb -t mytag .
```

Reviewer 3: I have no strong feelings / this seems fine. Could / should we add a comment to our Dockerfiles that any substantive change should be updated in <final resting place of this document>

Author: for posterity: @hutchic reminded me that we can't parametrize the FROM argument to allow someone to pass in their own base image because Docker doesn't like that and won't approve our images.

Author: To summarize various offline conversations: we aren't going to parametrize the FROM arg because that slows down Dockerhub acceptance of images, and we aren't going to provide a templated Dockerfile because none of us care for the ones we've seen. We might change our minds on the latter when we've had a chance to see how much our Dockerfiles change in the future and how much updating the doc needs as a result. I've added comments to the Makefiles and Dockerfiles to update the doc when those files change. I've also added a paragraph describing how to use the repo more or less as-is, changing only the name of the base image.

# Building Docker images that contain the Kong Gateway

Kong Software uses the [docker-kong github
repository](https://github.com/Kong/docker-kong/) to build Docker images that
contain the Kong Gateway. We will use  
[docker-kong](https://github.com/Kong/docker-kong/) as a reference
implementation for describing how to build your own Docker images that contain the Kong
Gateway.

> We do not provide a Dockerfile with the `FROM` argument parametrized to allow you to use your

Author: Added an explanation of why we're taking the approach we are.

own base image because doing so impedes our ability to get public images
accepted promptly by Dockerhub. If you wish, you can clone the [docker-kong github
repository](https://github.com/Kong/docker-kong/) and adjust the Dockerfile for 
your desired package type to use your desired base image and package version, 
then use the `build_v2` target in our `Makefile` to build your image. This
document instead takes the approach of walking through the contents of the Dockerfiles
so that you can create and maintain your own.  

To build your Docker image, you will need to provide 

1. A base image of your choice
1. An entrypoint script that runs the Kong Gateway
1. A Dockerfile that installs the Kong Gateway from a location you specify

## Base image
You can use images derived from Alpine, RHEL, or Debian; Kong Software pushes `.apk`, `.deb`, and
`.rpm` packages to our [public package repository](https://download.konghq.com/).

## Entrypoint script

Get the [entrypoint
script](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Kong/docker-kong/master/docker-entrypoint.sh)
from the [docker-kong github repository](https://github.com/Kong/docker-kong/) and put it in

> directory where you are planning to run thecommand to build your Docker image.

Reviewer 4: @yzl  Can we add a space here?

Author: @saisatishkarra added
